*To Add Column to existing Table

alter table table-name add(column-name datatype);
alter table Student add(address char);

*To Add Multiple Column to existing Table

alter table table-name add(column-name1 datatype1, column-name2 datatype2, column-name3 datatype3);
alter table Student add(father-name varchar(60), mother-name varchar(60), dob date); 

*To Add column with Default Value

alter table table-name add(column-name1 datatype1 default data);
alter table Student add(dob date default '1-Jan-99'); 

*To Modify an existing Column

alter table table-name modify(column-name datatype);
alter table Student modify(address varchar(30)); 

*To Rename a column

alter table table-name rename old-column-name to column-name;
alter table Student rename address to Location;

*To Drop a Column

alter table table-name drop(column-name);
alter table Student drop(address);

*truncate command

truncate command removes all records from a table. But this command will not destroy the table's structure. 
When we apply truncate command on a table its Primary key is initialized. Following is its Syntax,

truncate table table-name
Here is an Example explaining it.

truncate table Student;
The above query will delete all the records of Student table.

truncate command is different from delete command. delete command will delete all the rows from a table 
whereas truncate command re-initializes a table(like a newly created table).

*drop command

drop query completely removes a table from database. This command will also destroy the table structure. 
drop table table-name

*rename query

rename command is used to rename a table.

rename table old-table-name to new-table-name
rename table Student to Student-record;

*INSERT command

INSERT into table-name values(data1,data2,..)
INSERT into Student values(101,'Adam',15);

Example to Insert NULL value to a column

Both the statements below will insert NULL value into age column of the Student table.

INSERT into Student(id,name) values(102,'Alex');
Or,
INSERT into Student values(102,'Alex',null);

*UPDATE command

UPDATE table-name set column-name = value where condition;
update Student set age=18 where s_id=102;

Example to Update multiple columns

UPDATE Student set s_name='Abhi',age=17 where s_id=103;

*3) Delete command

Delete command is used to delete data from a table. 
Delete command can also be used with condition to delete a particular row. 

DELETE from table-name;
DELETE from Student;
The above command will delete all the records from Student table.

DELETE from Student where s_id=103;

